nothing could be more insufferable than  the pretense that you and you alone  represent the truth whether that is in  contrast to a  false religion ideology or mythology  allow me to open this discussion allow  me to begin this video by instead  contrasting one  myth to another  let's suppose a 12 year old child  asks you  where does democracy come from how is it  that new democracies are made in this  world over say the last 100 years  and looking ahead this child is getting  old enough now that they're seeing and  hearing things in the news looking at  the next  100 years where where does democracy  come from now  you're talking to a child  you can tell the truth but you can only  tell so much of the truth perhaps to  some extent  no matter how honest you want to be  you're going to engage in a bit of  mythology a bit of mythological  reasoning you're going to hint at or  suggest  some deeper truths but you're going to  simplify the reality of what history is  and what's going on in politics  right here  well you know son  in  japan  democracy  was created  when they were conquered  by the american army  democracy  is the system of government  the japanese committed to  in negotiating  the end  of american military  occupation  does anyone alive think that japan would  have become a democracy if it had not  been conquered by the american army does  anyone think that japan would have  become a democracy if instead they had  been conquered by the russian army and  in case you didn't know that was  happening  simultaneously and that's why several  islands in the north of japan are  russian territory to this day  how did uh  how did south korea  become a democracy how did  taiwan  become a democracy why is  why is germany  a democracy how did any of these places  become democracies what's the origin  of democracy couldn't we present  a very different myth  of democracy that does indeed tell you  some of the truth perhaps not all of it  perhaps it simplifies  perhaps it overly simplifies history  but it picks and chooses certain facts  from that history to tell you something  that's really profound and important  about politics  in our own time that's that's where  democracy comes from and that's why iraq  has elections  today  do you think that if america had not  conquered iraq or if they had allowed  isis  to conquer  and rule iraq do you think there would  be  any pretense of democracy any elections  any freedom of the press to criticize  political leaders do you think that  would exist in america and you know  the strangest thing about the type of  mythology i'm attacking in this video  is that it simultaneously wants to  ignore  india  and yet also very cynically employ  selected anecdotes about the political  history of india in order to you know  support their own hands where does  where does democracy come from  the 12 year old kid asking if you have a  12 year old son let's just say to keep  this protracted metaphor going where  does where does democracy come from well  you know son  more than one billion people  live in democracy  in india today and you know why that is  it's because they were conquered  by the british empire  democracy  in india  is the system of government they settled  on  in negotiations that would end  the military occupation  of india it was an agreement  their constitution was worked out  completely through  elite level politics  india is not a democracy because of  street protests  no  [Laughter]  are you kidding me oh and and i'm sorry  do you think do you think if india had  never been conquered by the british or  if india had instead  been conquered by the japanese and the  japanese had never been conquered by the  americans if it had been incorporated  into the imperial  you know japanese  co-prosperity sphere  japanese empire do you think  do you think india would be  a democracy today oh yeah and you know  the hypothetical examples go much  further than this so we have a positive  example  right a positive example  of how imperialism creates democracy in  india and sri lanka  why why do you think  taiwan is a democracy  and china isn't mainland  why do you think that is  what kind of myth do you  they just didn't have enough street  protests  is that what it is  they didn't have enough people holding  up placards they didn't have enough sexy  women  taking their clothes off  and appearing on newspaper covers oh  attractive women take off their clothes  for political cause  headline news  tune in for the nightly news at six  there just weren't enough attractive  women willing to get naked in china  there weren't enough young men chanting  slogans and holding up is that is that  what it is or  are we willing to say  that if one man in the united states of  america the man who happened to be  president of the united states america  had committed to oppose mao zedong to  oppose communism to send in troops if  you know during world war ii or after  world war ii during that period of  history broadly speaking you can  you can broaden out by ten years on  either end frankly but if during this  long period of internacing civil war and  revolution in china if america had made  the decision made the commitment then  china would have  democracy today china  had the misfortune  not  to be conquered  by the american army not to be conquered  by the british empire imagine how much  better off china could be today if they  had a political system just as good as  what india has  imagine how much better off china would  be today if they had the political  system iraq has  many of you will be saying  or feeling wow what a tremendously bleak  and dark  picture of the world of just presenting  with you is it  is it bleak is it dark is it hopeless  right now kazakhstan  right now myanmar  right now belarus what hope do they have  to achieve democracy  the only hope they have is that they're  conquered by the united states of  america that is it the only hope they  have  is that there is an american-led  military intervention to create  democracy period there is no other way  for there to be democracy in myanmar  there is no other way to have democracy  in belarus there is no other way to have  democracy in  kazakhstan and there are marginal cases  the ukraine  will have as much or as little democracy  as america is willing to buy  oh yes our most cynical allies in the  world the ukraine they got real  interested in democracy precisely when  the russian army started taking away  more and more than not before that you  know it's pretty much simultaneous with  their need to elicit support from the  american government they got real  interested in democracy oh yeah yeah now  all of a sudden the ukraine represents  uh western ideals of democracy against  and in contrast to the russians right  that's that's the game we're playing at  least on the level of propaganda and  many others many other countries have  tried to do this you know cynically you  know well once we're in a civil war or  once we're being invaded by some other  country now we'll try to present  ourselves to the americans and look you  know america isn't the only country in  the world that has an army it's just  who's actually willing to show the  initiative  india  could  conquer  myanmar india could conquer afghanistan  they could  right now 2022 i don't mean retrospect  2023 whatever looking at the future you  know india could  if you know anything about politics they  will only do that if they're in lockstep  with the united states of america it's  impossible to imagine the the indian  army uh taking that initiative uh  without uh  some kind of collusion with some kind of  encouragement from the united states of  everybody in india has an enormous army  and they're willing to take the  casualties that if huge numbers of  people would die but that's that's worth  oh you want oh you thought democracy  didn't involve killing people is that  what you thought  did you think democracy was about peace  do you think it was about equality what  do you think democracy is where do these  myths come from  and what purpose do they serve  so i'm asking you seriously  um  what are the consequences  of even tolerating these myths about  democracy in our times now  guys i do see your comments from the  audience coming in if you have a second  hit the thumbs up button more people can  uh more people can join the conversation  and more people can disagree with me and  i am interested in hearing your your uh  your disagreements  um  okay so i'm just just gonna respond to  one person sorry i have a lot more to  say somebody called the galaxy lab who  i've never seen in my audience before no  big deal but welcome i haven't uh your  name is not from me says  quote lol  american style democracy is an utter  joke around the world have you been to  south korea  i have  what do you think about the difference  between south korea and north korea  you think that's a joke  you think people aren't willing to fight  and die  for the difference between south korea  and north korea  how about the difference between life in  florida  and life in cuba  you think that's a joke  you think american-style democracy's  joke you're wrong  have you been to south america have you  been to countries like brazil and  colombia and venezuela venezuela a  horrifying example  i think there are a whole lot of people  all around the world  whether they're in countries that are  clinging to the fragments of democracy  that are kind of just barely democratic  or countries that are outright  dictatorships who keenly feel and  appreciate what the difference is  between living in an american-style  democracy and living in their current  circumstances am i claiming american  democracy is perfect  no  i'm telling you that if you were an  intellectual born and raised in iran  if you were an intellectual born and  raised  in communist china  those these people travel  you know they take vacations in the  united states some of them have college  programs exchange programs  okay the difference between life in  america  and life under a despotic regime it is  no  joke  it's deadly serious and oh i'm sorry so  i don't know if you even watch the news  you know there was this  hopeless revolution in syria  all right and even in syria do you know  how many tens of thousands of people  volunteered  to fight and die for the possibility  that their country could have  american-style democracy instead of  dictation for the dream  of a syrian democracy now yes by the way  i realized that wasn't the only dream  there were also muslim fundamentalists  who were fighting because their dream  was to have a even more even more  despotic even less democratic society  ruled by sharia law there were many  dreamers with many different dreams but  all these people stood up  ready to fight and die  for a democratic future in  syria  given the level of education those  people have the level of political  sophistication the kind of repression  they've been living under  all right  so if you um  if you ever watched the footage  of what happened  in the tiananmen square protests  in china  they built a statue of liberty  and those were all people born and  raised under the most extreme communist  dictatorship imaginable they're people  who grew up seeing  [Music]  american imperialism vilified american  democracy denounced constantly that's  all they heard from their teachers  it's all they read in textbooks it's a  totally one-sided  condemnation  of american democracy okay and the  tiananmen square protesters they were  predominantly uh university educated  people it's not worth getting all the  details but they they were i mean they  were not  farmers and peasants and illiterate  people from the countryside the vast  majority of them were university  educated people in the downtown part of  beijing and that's where it was that's  who those people were  and they  literally built  a copy of  somewhat artistic reinterpretation of  the statue of liberty  all right  how easy for you to say  lol american style democracy is a joke  around the world those people  stood up  and fought  and died  for democracy in china  they didn't they didn't hypothetically  risk their lives they did risk their  lives and they're dead now  okay  and and it wasn't just them that died  most of them their parents were hunted  down and killed their brothers and  sisters were hunted down and killed and  this is chinese style repression it's  not all at once  it's not overnight it's over a few years  so that the ripples aren't as noticeable  but step by step  those people and their relatives  were erased you think that's a joke  all right now look  i can sit here and uh from my privileged  position  i can talk about the advantages of swiss  democracy over american democracy i can  talk about the advantages of denmark  over the united states of america okay  and also as it happens in terms of  education background i can point to  taiwan as a very positive example of a  well-functioning democracy and i've  already mentioned japan  there are advantages to the japanese  system of democracy to the taiwanese  system switzerland you know  there are many  models of  democracy right now in kazakhstan  right now in myanmar  right now in belarus right now in  ukraine is it swiss democracy they're  crying out for  is it support and intervention  from switzerland  is it denmark  they're reaching out for is it israel  is it taiwan  is it japan  is it india  no  it's american democracy  okay it's not british democracy either  it's not the british system parliament  all right  you could write a science fiction novel  i mean you can imagine  a different world where it's not  american democracy that's the dominant  model and  you can imagine a different world  where japan instead of being this  nominally pacifist nation is instead an  incredibly hawkish  militant country pushing for democracy  everywhere from mongolia to cambodia but  they're not okay i mean the the japanese  are sitting down and pouring sake into a  cup and drinking with all the corrupt  dictators throughout asia that's their  style they're not trying to make myanmar  into a democracy they're not putting any  pressure on cambodia or laos they're  pouring money into those countries and  supporting dictatorship and in case you  hadn't heard the japanese also like to  do business with iran  now there are a lot of different reasons  for that but one of them is racism you  know i'll tell you something but the  japanese attitude the japanese look at  people like the iranians and people like  the burmese and the cambodians and they  just think oh well you're not  you're not as advanced as us you're not  as sophistic you couldn't possibly have  our system going there's a really deep  dehumanizing racism that separates the  japanese  uh from the rest of the world and you  know  obviously i'm not claiming the swiss  aren't racist the swiss have their own  form of racism people of denmark  probably have their own kind of racism  too  uh so on and so forth you know but sure  there are reasons why  it is america and america alone these  people look to it's america alone that's  it's creating this model you know and  yes it's taken incredibly seriously and  there are incredibly serious  consequences for the whole world for  better for worse  now look guys um  i remember  eight years ago  and the world's changed a lot in eight  years  there was this wave of  youtube channels and youtube videos  saying that you  yes you could lead a better life  if you packed your bags and moved to  japan  and these are videos mostly aimed at  white americans  to some extent white western europeans  like maybe there were some british  people and germans and so on but  predominantly it was white americans  who had a university education  and when they finished the university  education they finished a ba  they had no particular hope for a better  life in the united states america no no  particular employment prospects  may be looking at getting a job as a  waiter or a waitress some very humble  employment after completing a bachelor's  degree in university united states  america  and then there's this one path to  money  fame power respect  and sex probably more sex than anything  else  and that is the route of  relocating to japan  the easiest at that time  most abundant form of employment was  being in english as a second language  teacher  so there's this huge kind of a political  movement on youtube i mean it didn't  perceive itself  as political  reaching out to pandering to catering to  university educated people in america  who wanted a better life  to know how to get it and saying hey  there's employment for you here in japan  there's this much money it's not really  spectacular wealth we can earn a good  living as a teacher in japan you can  have a new and better life so just that  little bit of money  i got to see how that inspired  a whole ideology now why do i say  ideology these people became consumed  with it  and you know  start to fantasize maybe when they're in  the middle of their university degree  about this new and better life that can  happen in japan and whether they are  male or female that once they get to  japan as a white american  suddenly there'll be so much more sexual  interest in them they'll be so much more  handsome if they're a man they'll be  perceived as so much more beautiful as a  white woman if they move to japan if  they make themselves exotic  and they start studying the japanese  language and they start watching the  cartoons and if they weren't already  playing the video games playing even  more of the video games they start to  admire the culture they start to take on  certain political attitudes and i know  people i mean  most of these people became right-wing  sometimes they became left-wing but they  became  politically  you know japanophiles  started adopting this japan-centric view  of the world and a lot of people got on  that train and didn't take the next step  of actually moving to japan  many did they went and they taught  english in japan but they got it into  their heads that a better life was  possible for them personally there was  money to motivate them personally on  that small scale and then on a larger  scale  there was a better model  of society  japan  a country with no unemployment japan  a country with no crime uh uh and here's  the right wing part  japan a country with no  immigration  and ironically the people who subscribed  to this view were themselves aspiring to  be immigrants  relocated to japan but yeah this is  the japanese model and the explosion of  popular interest in it  what's happened  in the social media era  of political organization you know  is that there's a lot more money  in this way motivating people's thoughts  people's feelings  ultimately people's activism uh shall we  say it's a very direct relationship  between what you say what you do how you  present yourself on camera  and how much money comes in in donations  now  i have read the autobiography  of benjamin franklin  benjamin franklin represents the old  model of politics  he literally owned the newspaper he  literally  organized a salon  saloon if you like  um a gentleman's book reading club  they would read a book and then come in  and have a meeting and discuss what  they've read this is the old methods of  political  you know  organization  and he would solicit donations  by going in person  he would walk up to  the doors  of wealth people's houses wealthy  people's mansions and manners and he  would speak to them face to face and the  term used back then was a subscription  he would ask them to take out a  subscription in supporting a a political  cause he was asking them for money and  he raised money for an enormous array of  things just to give a couple examples he  opened a school  he created and opened a library  he created a street cleaning service  um so there are donations that were used  to employ people to sweep and wash the i  think they didn't even have sidewalks  but you know the streets such as they  were at the time  there's a long list and by the way quite  a few wars came and went before you get  to the american revolution and that was  if you will pardon the non-vegan  metaphor that was  shoe leather politics  walk up to someone's door knock on the  door oh it's benjamin franklin it's  benjamin franklin asking you to donate  money  now you know i'm not a big fan of  benjamin franklin  a certain kind of character  a certain kind of personality  was attracted and rewarded and there are  certain barriers to entry in the  politics of that era i would say it's  one in the same era  from benjamin franklin  all the way through to  dr martin luther king  jr  the skill set you needed  was precisely being a christian preacher  and it's no surprise that so many of the  populist  democratic and semi-democratic leaders  they were in effect trained  by the church  what do you do as a as a church pastor  well you have kind of two modes of  communication  one is getting up at a pulpit  speaking to a crowd whether that's 30  people or 300 people  and you practice that probably from  childhood maybe from your teenage years  you practice speaking  to a crowd  and the other is sitting down and either  with sincere humility or phony humility  talking to someone face to face  about their problems or you call that  counseling i suppose right somebody like  martin luther king jr  right this was the training he had that  no offense most of you in the audience  don't have there's one person in the  audience who's done this let me know  right and guys i have this training too  why do you think i'm so much better at  this than all these jackasses who try to  be leaders in the vegan movement and  ecology all right i'm not going to  digress here into my whole autobiography  you know i recognize that i'm someone  who in some ways could have thrived on  the old model  yes it involved  publications on paper  but crucially i mean if if benjamin  franklin  just had a stutter if benjamin franklin  had a speech impediment right  none of us would be talking today about  benjamin  the ability to  with confidence knock on someone's door  and you know what that time would have  been a servant who answered the door in  many cases it would have been a slave  to my story and you'd say tell your  master that benjamin franklin is here to  talk to you whether that was to ask for  money for the war effort or to build a  build a hospital or whatever his project  at the time was and that was that was  really his whole career leading up to he  was already an old old man when the  american revolution happened he had this  long career as a major political figure  uh before the revolution before the  writing of the constitution that he was  tangentially involved and he was  slightly involved in the writing the  american constitution but really his his  book he was already in the  post-retirement period he was in his old  old age  at that stage  um  certain kind of person  a certain kind of  profile  for who can be a political leader  who can succeed and who's going to be  excluded by that old world  of politics okay well now  in the 21st century we have a different  kind of incentive structure  and a different kind of person  who's going to succeed  it's not benjamin franklin  anymore all right  wayne siong  this man has no charisma  none  zero he has no personality he's not a  good writer he has nothing interesting  to say i've read his essays to my  knowledge he hasn't written a book but  i've read his writing it's not just his  public speaking than ever all right  there is absolutely nothing  interesting about him  wayne siong raised  millions of dollars in donations by just  studying and responding to  what it was that the audience wanted to  hear  now you'll see why i'm mentioning this  this directly prefigures  what happened with extinction rebellion  in many many ways  whether you call it the marketing  of wayne siong  uh wayne young's organization is called  dxe director network  or you think of it as actually the  political philosophy of wayne stone it  is identical to  the philosophy of extinction rebellion i  think these are  methods tactics tropes that we're now  going to see exploited again and again  because  there are millions of dollars  involved  right  the motivation for people to behave this  way and for political movements  to organize this way in a way that i  feel is not just undemocratic but  anti-democratic all right it is spelled  out  in dollars and cents  as never before sorry let me just ask  you real quick  when benjamin franklin wanted to be  taken seriously when he wanted political  support and financial support wanted  donations  do you think he needed people to stand  in the street  holding placards and chanting  is that where his base of political  support  came from  the difference is subtle but it's not  [ __ ] subtle at all once you let  yourself see it you know what uh well oh  we're dealing with a completely  different all right  okay so how does wayne style make money  how does wayne siong have a  multi-million dollar success story  in the you know in some ways competitive  world of putting out your shingle for  your charity and saying hey hey don't  donate to those other guys donate to me  other people promise they're gonna make  the world a better place  first and foremost bedrock commitment  is to  pseudoscience he takes his political  ideology and he misrepresents it to the  audience as scientific  fact  he claims that if you study history of  the world  throughout the whole of history there's  only one method of achieving progress  that works this is established and  proven by quote-unquote social science  research  some of you've been watching my channel  for years so you've heard me drawing  attention to this and criticizing it for  years for some of you it's your first  time uh thinking about this he says okay  it is a proven scientific fact that this  and this alone is the way to social  progress and it's very telling what the  examples are that he marshaled in  support of that  argument say in season one  of uh direct action everywhere season  one of his political movement season one  of his finals  mohandas gandhi  meant known to many of you as mahatma  gandhi  martin luther king  jr  um if you want an example that directly  prefigures dxe and wayne syong i would  point to the cult group or cult-like  group  landmark  so  landmark  and before it was called landmark it was  called est est  they changed their name for different  reasons  they were always hammering home to  people  don't you want to be like  martin luther king don't you want to be  like gandhi and it's quite possible  wayne chung himself attended a landmark  event that he got this from it's also  possibly just got it from  the zeitgeist shall we say what was  floating around in our in pop culture at  that time now i pointed out to wayne and  i i have reason to believe it's not  worth anyone wayne did hear my critique  of his movement at that time be a long  story see how i know that but one very  simple example he did put a tweet on  twitter that that mentioned me and  provided a link to my videos so that was  that's some evidence and i have other  evidence i have no reason to think wayne  is listening to this  discussion we're having today or that  he's become a fan of my channel all term  but i know that early on he did listen  to my critique and one of the  fundamental questions to ask there is  look  how much do you really know about  mohandas gandhi  oh how much do you really know about dr  martin luther king jr and how that  example applies to your so you know  there were there were these kinds of  questions all right so the purpose of  this video that critique is is  irrelevant because i'm not pointing to  the extent to which things are are true  or false  taking the truth and falsehood as a  whole and i'm adam writing it as  mythology  this is a kind of mythology  you know was presented it was an  incredibly powerful myth the power of  this myth is proven through its  fundraising people donated  millions of dollars to support this myth  and sir so we've just gone over it  scientific fact is asserted as a  scientific fact there's only one way to  achieve progress and and now they're  going to show you what it is now they're  going to tell you what it is it's it's  the same i mean this is like the the  cult belief and the power of possible  pardon me the power of positive thinking  you know oh oh don't you know the secret  don't you know the secret that made dr  martin luther king jr a success don't  you know the secret that made behind us  gandhian success it's the same secret  we're gonna sell to you now  sign up and donate it's the same secret  of democratic progress don't you know  the secret that accomplished civil  rights equal rights for black people  united states america don't you know the  secret that put an end to the vietnam  war can you guess what it is  i'll let you in on a secret if you  donate one million dollars to my phony  ass political charity don't ask any  questions about what's being done with  that money but where it goes or what we  need a million dollars for  is that what ended the vietnam war was  people donating millions dollars is that  is that all that  so there was this very  um  tightly defined  set of cultural touchstones all of which  were american i mean none of these have  anything to do with the history of  germany none of them have to do the  history of japan south korea and india i  mean that's the most absurd thing of all  like they're they're invoking india  especially just the name of mahatma  gandhi i don't like to call him mahatma  but i prefer to call him hondas but  anyway he's gandhi in either case you  know  india is being kind of cynically  employed this way but there's no  interest in the political history of any  other country or continent there's no  interest in the political history of  africa  the caribbean south america these are  all uniquely american cultural  touchstones but they're put out there in  this tantalizing way home  the reason why martin luther king jr was  successful the reason why the  anti-vietnam war protests were  successful it's it's the secret  and that secret  is a scientific  fact  it's a rule  it's a law as inescapable  as the laws of physics  like gravity like friction  like inertia  millions of dollars  all right thousands of people  donated millions of dollars okay that  was the formula you know wayne  came up with and you know anyone who  goes through the sources from that time  you know uh  you will see the extent to which his  work was derivative of other people's  writing and there's nothing wrong with  that we can also see the ways in which  it was original that he took particular  bits and pieces put them together now  it's important to recognize briefly  the marketing ploy  adapted and changed over time so  in the beginning  they claimed that they were not an  organization  they claimed that they were a completely  horizontal network of activists that  they had no leaders and no followers no  constitution  no organization but then what are you  donating to all right you got a problem  right  i don't know if that lasted for one year  or two years i mean i could get into the  exact timeline when did they remove  those claims from their website when was  it replaced with a different you know  philosophy they had a number of sex  scandals  that was the turning point and then they  started to claim that they're not a  fully horizontal organization they're  actually a very vertical  organization and there's you know  there's one man in charge and then below  that one man there's a council they  started to explicitly claim that they  were a hierarchical organization but my  point is here  i mean some elements of the mythology  remain the same but other elements  changed with time and they changed  directly in response to what earned  money and what didn't what elicited  donation what solicited donations i  should say and what didn't so you know  what it turns out  people hugging cute animals  gets donations that wasn't part of their  founding mission and mandate right their  initial claim was that this one method  of protest and disruption was the way to  pursue social political change  they were against  going into factory farms and  taking film footage that wasn't what  their their mission was they were not  initially an organization based on  rescuing and adopting  animals  they were about disruption i don't have  to get into what that means and they  claim their method of disruption is the  same thing that mama gandhi did and the  same thing that  martin luther king jr did which is again  questionable beginners but that's the  myth that's mythology okay well guess  what  not that many people want to donate  money  to a bunch of [ __ ] idiots standing in  a restaurant holding placards holding  signs and slogans chanting it's not food  it's violence that wasn't what got the  money rolling in  breaking and entering going into  a factory farm going into a  slaughterhouse going to these types of  facilities  and rescuing an animal or photographing  yourself petting an animal  okay this got them the kind of attention  from the press that wanted this gotham  the kind of  donations they wanted all right  there were millions and millions of  dollars involved here now as i already  stated in the  preview to this video so there's a just  a six minute video that sets up this  conversation and invited people to be  here for the live stream uh a little  more than an hour in advance  it is true that a crucial prelude  to the success of dxe direct action  everywhere and and shaping this this  changing notion we have of democracy  changing notion of public protest  changing notion of the pursuit  of political change you know it was a  very important prelude in the formation  of the  so-called effective altruism  movement  now if you google  how much money did effective altruism  manage to funnel manage to move around  it is allegedly in excess of one billion  dollars  maybe you can find an estimate somewhere  that it's above two billion dollars  obviously there's a reason to lie or  exaggerate that i have no reason to  think one billion dollars is the correct  number or two billion  but it is many many many millions of  dollars  that have been collected in donations or  donations that have been budged around  and reallocated uh the amount of money  involved with the so-called effective  altruism movement is unbelievable so  again this motivates this motivates  people right just the prospect you can  have a better life in japan motivates  people as i said earlier that's you know  for kind of a survival salary but a  salary and a quality of life and a  social position position of influence  and  power and respect  in japan that's better than what you  have if you stay in kansas  better than being a waitress in kansas  you know  um this powerfully motivates people so  when we're talking about millions of  dollars when we're talking about tens of  millions of dollars and possibly  hundreds of millions of dollars right  you can think about think about  distorting these motivations  guys i'm happy to have your your  comments here i mean i obviously i'm i  can choose what i do and don't respond  to  based on how interesting or salient or  intelligent it is  uh frankly  so brendan williams asks quote in the  past you've mentioned canada being a  pseudo-democracy do you think our  governance model is outdated someone  said we have paleolithic emotions  medieval governance but god-like  technology it's an interesting comment  from brandon so brendan i've written a  whole book about that the book is called  no more manifestos um buy it and read it  but yes the book is a very harsh  condemnation of the political systems we  have both in the united states and  canada but there's a kind of good news  there too right like is this pessimism  or is this optimism because the  understanding i present of american  democracy  is basically that what is right with  america is right despite its  constitution not because of it and  that's very good news you know  um i think it's much much bleaker view  of the world  if you look at america and canada as  being inhabited by terrible people but  who have a wonderful constitution or a  wonderful justice system wonderful  criminal law system or wonderful  electoral system but terrible people  that's much more pessimistic than saying  well look there's something really right  about american culture there's something  really right about the american people  and um  it's unfortunate that they have  a bad system of laws a bad uh system of  government generally and so on so i i  regard that as as optimistic rather than  pessimistic  but obviously if you're a conventional  jingoistic canadian nationalist or  something all you want to hear is that  canada is a great system of parliament i  guess you could respond to that at least  initially in a shallow way as as bad  news or as kind of disillusioning  so a manangoanka asks quote what are  your thoughts on english democracy  vis-a-vis american democracy so there's  quite a lot of material on that in my  book too in no more manifestos and  what's paradoxical about  american democracy  is that it  presents itself  as the antithesis  to  british democracy right it was a  revolution against a rebellion against  the british right this is out so it  presents itself  um  and  in so many ways i mean almost in every  single way  instead the system of government the  americans created was a continuation of  the british parliamentary system so  again i've written a whole book dealing  with it there are several chapters  talking about this exact issue and these  paradoxes and what what's entailed by  what's perhaps worth saying here briefly  um americans at that time  so during the revolution during the  negotiations surrounding the  constitution this gap between you first  you have the revolution then you have  the constitution  um  americans were presented with the myth  that they were returning to the virtues  of ancient rome  and ancient sparta  the ancient roman republic and  specifically sparta  not athens  and what i try to show in the book in a  powerful way is that that was a lie  i was not even  false  it's really an intentional lie  and there was no attempt whatsoever made  by the americans  we're talking about a small number of  americans a small number of elite  americans including benjamin franklin  including thomas jefferson including  john adams the people who directly  participated in the creation of the  american system of government at many  states including my my favorite governor  morris governor morris a fascinating  historical figure um so it's not a huge  number of people were generalized  materials a few dozen people  um  they were aware of the model of  government in ancient athens ancient  rome and sparta they did know about  these things and there was absolutely no  interest in creating a republic on that  model democracy in that model etc so  yeah  that's my my comment about that and  again you get i think  reflections on that that are really  useful that really have pragmatic  value pragmatic importance now  in the year 2022 and moving forward i'm  not just talking about history  for what it adds to our understanding of  history i'm talking about history for  the way it can change politics now and  in the future  by the way so i'm not offended by these  questions um wicked energy uh asks uh  quote isil would you do a response to  someone anti-democratic like nick  frantisco is called so i just say very  briefly um  the critique of wayne siong is not  popular on my channel nobody wants to  hear me talk about  the critique of roger hallam so roger  hallam is the leader of um  extinction rebellion thank you  uh so this ecological movement to do  with climate change extinction rebellion  the no one wants to see my views about  roger helen like people people watch my  videos about roger helm and extension  because they're interested in me  i'm not drawing in any new viewers that  way nobody's interested in that topic  and most of my viewers they wish i was  talking about something else  okay i am  engaged in the analysis of figures like  wayne syong and roger hallman including  right now  in this in this video because i really  genuinely think there's something for  you and the audience to learn from it of  tremendous importance and  with no false humility there's something  for me to learn from it too like i learn  i benefit from the analysis of what's  going on with those those political  leaders  so when you talk about someone like nick  fuentes  and another example would be in mendom  um  you know it might be more popular i  might it might be more salacious and  more entertaining for me to lay into for  me to in an over-the-top way condem  nick fuentes or criticize and condemn  in momentum  but i i really don't think there's uh  anything much to to learn from it you  know for me or for you  so you know obviously i'm not saying  this to then slam the door on it  but  you know i have if you look through my  channel i have criticized many extreme  political figures communists  uh fascists all kinds of different  people  but  you know think about what is the  educational value of critique or what's  the what's the political value of it  sure sometimes you know so so another  example i i think  nobody has ever asked me  to criticize  sargon of akkad i think his real name is  carl benjamin i i'm sorry approximately  uh and nobody's ever asked me to  criticize certain people i know i've had  a couple videos uh  at least kind of mentioning him it's  come up  a couple of times right  you know i'm not gonna say there's zero  value to that but sure one i'm engaged  in the in the critique of uh  you know that's all i'm saying well how  much  how much value is there in engaging in a  particular kind of uh political  criticism you know and by the way my  time is limited my money is limited it  is  you know i think there would be  tremendous value right now about uh  delving into a critique of the politics  of kazakhstan  all of syndicate i think it's  tremendously important and i feel i  can't do it i feel i can't take the time  and you know no offense i'm not like  blaming you in the audience but i don't  have the audience to support me in doing  that either you know i mean you can  imagine if i had one million viewers and  10 000 of them were really willing to  support me financially as well as just  with viewing numbers in  in digging in deeper and deeper into the  current politics of kazakhstan i'd love  to do it myanmar i would love to make  more videos talking about myanmar right  but uh  so so yeah these are you know in  pragmatic terms this is what you this is  what you get into now as unpopular as it  may be for me to talk about in this  video as my examples uh roger hallam and  um  waynes young i can mention here also  peter singer  no nobody wants to hear me talk about  peter center okay nobody not even vegans  who've been watching my channel for  eight years nobody wants to hear me talk  about peterson but those at least are  faces people in my audience can  immediately relate to and you care about  to some extent and you know political  leaders in laos in kazakhstan and  myanmar  even thailand nobody is you can't even  really imagine who i'm talking about or  why you can't relate to it uh and yet by  the way peter singer is another figure  who's going to come up in in today's  discussion  uh so those of you who don't know who  peter singer is you can google it now  if you've never heard of peter singer  um  yeah so you know there's something said  for that but sure i really sincerely  believe that what i'm doing here is  important and again it has  pragmatic real world value and real  consequences so just say this also at  this point uh by the way guys if you  have a second hit the thumbs up button  it helps more people discover the video  while it's going and it'll help more  people discover it later too but it'll  help more people actually join this this  conversation you know  um talent is scarce  there is absolutely no jealousy in my  heart whatsoever  but if you think about over a 10-year  period  how much money  was there  going into  non-communist  non-socialist  utopian projects you know what sorry  let's let's flesh all about also  non-fascist  uh non-christian  non-muslim right if you think about the  political spectrum  the area i'm interested in is in the  middle like it doesn't go too far left  and doesn't go too far right  there's a certain number of millions of  dollars  that are going to be donated to someone  wayne siong  took a couple million of those dollars  james aspie  i don't know how much but you know  certain amount of that money was taken  up by by james axby you know uh black  lives matter  so i've seen the number 90 million i i  good luck finding responsible serious  accounting of how much money in total  went to to black lives matter many many  millions of dollars in this period of  time let's say 10 years went to black  lives matter peta people of the ethical  treatment of animals i'm saying like  within that middle range like obviously  we could include christian fanatics  christian fundamentalists mormons uh  muslim  extremists we could include the far  right wing  fascists and so on and if you wanted to  on the left you could include communist  utopian projects right but within if we  exclude them say okay so how much money  is there right and then how many  talented people  are chasing after or soliciting that  money there is a very real sense in  which  the success of  peter singer  necessarily entails someone else's  failure the fact that direct action  everywhere got that money the fact that  wayne's young got that money the fact  that anonymous for the voiceless got  that money again they're in the  multi-million dollar camp the fact that  even [ __ ] dr greger got those  millions of dollars right that means  those millions of dollars didn't go  somewhere else and yeah i can say  straight up it didn't go to me and it  didn't go to anyone i support right now  again within the middle spectrum i  wasn't sure uh dr greger it was a really  boring movement like pcrm physicians  committee for responsive medicine like  we talked about some really non-radical  political movements that are there in  the in the in the middle of the spectrum  tussling for that money how much money  was donated to jank wieger the leader of  the young turks of young turks and  american  news slash baltimore you know  there are only so many millions of  dollars going around  and  even if you didn't think there was any  harm being done by wayne young if you  thought this was kind of harmless and  pointless even if you didn't think there  was any harm being done  by peter singer and the causes that  people are actively are donating to  right there is a different kind of harm  just because of the finitude  of uh i know we could call it the  ecosystem of charity here right there  there's competition and it's not  survival of the fittest so i'll just  come back to this briefly i've already  outlined this so i can say this briefly  if you've just joined us now you might  not know what i'm talking about okay as  i already said it right a certain kind  of person was able to raise money 100  years ago 200 years ago 300 years ago  someone like benjamin franklin could  stand and by the way benjamin franklin  dressed like an aristocrat he presented  himself where his his best clothes and  so on  by designer clothing imported from paris  and he presented himself as a scientist  at that time scientists dressed like  aristocrats they didn't wear a lab coat  they wore i mean you can look it up  they wore irmine and they wore sandculat  they wore uh oh i'm sorry they were  culotte not sankalot they were kulat  they wore silk stockings and short pants  and frilly  uh i can't even say neckties they had  frills around their necks this was how  benjamin franklin presented himself a a  self-made aristocrat a self-made  gentleman and a scientist and so on  right certain kind of person uh could  raise money and build up a political  movement and benjamin franklin was  incredibly successful as i say long  before the american revolution really  the american revolution is kind of the  end of his career and then he's a very  old man in the writing constitution so  you know what he said but that's that's  at the end of his uh his his period of  of greatness and power and evidence you  know but it's a tremendously powerful  man for many many many many decades okay  um  so if you talk about this as a kind of  ecology right  who wins  what's a certain kind of dishonesty that  wins it's a certain kind of  myth  and as i was trying to get into briefly  i don't need to talk about a greater  death when you look at the success of  direct action effort when you look at  the success of wayne steele from my  perspective everything they're saying is  a lie it's all totally dishonest  but the lie changes over time it adapts  they're adapting their marketing  strategy they're adapting their  mythology as they're making more and  more money and they see what's what's  successful and what what's not right so  now again  i do not think today  benjamin franklin and his methods would  be successful i wouldn't say that be  totally unsuccessful um  but you know i just i don't think that's  the winning formula today how well would  benjamin franklin do  on instagram you know really you know  you know certain type of personality  is going to succeed  in the era of political  political donation hunting whatever you  want to call it here political  fundraising uh uh the post-social media  hero now if you guys have been watching  my channel for more than five years  you've heard me say this before it's not  all bad news  when my father was a kid when my father  was a teenager whether you were looking  at the vietnam anti-war movement or the  the black lives matter movement of its  day groups like the black panthers  people had very little information  at their disposal when they made their  commitment to supporting a group or  joining a group one charismatic guy  would stand up and give a speech and  hand out pamphlets and that was it  people really gambled with their life  people ended up joining black radical  movements and not realizing what they  were joining you know they didn't they  didn't have any ability to google it and  hear multiple perspectives and they  didn't just be honest so this is one  hour i don't think they really  got to learn they got to ask questions  and have an in-depth nuanced nuanced  relationship with the leader of their  movement the way people do today so you  know my father told me different  anecdotes about when he was a young man  he was he was fascinated by this  very different character for me my  father you know um  but he was he was fascinated by this but  he himself and all these idealistic  people in the 1960s they were committing  to and supporting  radical political movements uh not just  with their money but with their lives  you know you're risking your  professional reputation you're risking  whether or not you're ever going to be  employed again joining you know often  extremist and really stupid political  movements so by the way going back to  that era  look at what the left wing was doing in  relation to israel and palestine they're  still crazy now i mean the left wing is  still crazy about israel-palestine  but the level of ignorance in the 1960s  and the extent to which people were  making these decisions based on a  one-sided  lecture a one-sided a demagogue standing  up and giving you a fiery lecture and a  pamphlet  and then people were really gambling  their lives and sometimes sadly they  actually killed other people too they  were radicalized and engaged in you know  violent action that should change their  own lives and change everyone else's  lives forever it wasn't just money being  gambled and people were making those  decisions on the basis of you know what  we now call in politics a stump speech  and a pamphlet so fundamentally things  have gotten better just because any of  you now if anyone is in this audience  for the first time give me a shout out  if you say hey this is the first time  i've ever seen you on youtube  welcome welcome to the audience  any of you can say oh well  who is this guy  and you can read essays i wrote 10 years  ago now in some ways that tells you who  i am now in some ways it does it tells  me what was 10 years ago you can read  essays i wrote about democracy and  communism and history and politics and  at the minimum you can say oh this guy  really cares about them and you can  watch youtube videos i did you can watch  youtube videos talking about star wars  and batman but also talking about  socrates and aristotle and the books  i've read and you can learn a lot about  me and you can decide how much you want  to trust me it's not all or nothing like  the old model these were really serious  commitments they were binary they were  black and white commitments  you know seriously everyone forgets how  violent the american revolution was  everyone forgets okay  people came to your door and asked which  side are you on and if you chose the  wrong side you were dead and if you  chose the right side you might get  killed anyway  you know being a so-called loyalist was  a death penalty offense in the streets  of new york people were killed and  people were even more commonly they were  beaten up and all their property taken  away from them because the  revolutionaries were money hungry but  you know if you didn't say the right  thing  governor morris himself  come to your door and shake you down  and steal your money and possessions and  your horses or whatever you had to be  stolen it was it was really gruesome uh  door-to-door  you know coercive  bloodthirsty  you know it was terrible this the  american revolution even you know so to  say  in the earlier period of history very  high level of commitment very simple  binary decision in front of you you know  and today  you can choose to trust me to some  extent you know you you can you can say  you know what this guy is  i believe he knows what he's talking  about on these topics but then when he's  talking about this other stuff i think  he doesn't know what he's talking about  and i don't i don't know  totally fine you know i mean totally you  you can choose to believe that i know  what i'm talking about when i talk about  democracy but you know when i talk about  um sexual politics gender politics  there's an example you think i'm totally  wrong or i'm just ignorant that i don't  know what i'm talking about  we're all we're all infinitely ignorant  you know sure you know  by the way i'm not suggesting that i'm  wrong about juniper no no i'm saying  that you might think that i'm you know  there's kind of a whole spectrum of  levels of  commitment and of course you can take  all this stuff in your own in your own  direction  so anyway there are ways in which the  current model of political activism and  fundraising it's better than anything  that happened before all right but most  of what we're talking about here today  are precisely the ways in which it's  worse within this ecosystem  who wins whoever lies the most  whoever fashions a lie  whoever fashions the mythology that  solicits donations right and now we get  to do this on this social media platform  where you get feedback from the audience  i mean you know someone like wayne siong  someone like peter singer  someone like paul beshear um for getting  another example one two three but anyway  uh  uh  someone like roger hallam  they get to see in real time  what's getting donations and what isn't  they get to see what kind of publicity  stunts yeah get them into the newspapers  but what makes them money they get a  feeling for the pulse  of what's profitable in politics like  never before and they get to change  their message they get to change their  myth  until  they have just the right mix to bring in  millions of dollars that's what's going  on now look sorry i just want to say  again very briefly  it requires a certain kind of  personality and the old system of  politics did too not everyone in this  audience can stand in front of a church  and say well  you know  not everyone has what it takes to be an  emcee and move the crown  and i say this to someone i do have what  it takes but morally and ethically i  never would  right i can't bring myself  to become a presbyterian  who performs funeral ceremonies not even  if it makes people feel better you know  and it's so easy to put yourself in the  religious mindset where you tell  brokenhearted people what they're going  to find uplifting where you just sit  there and you tell someone  i'm sorry i'm sorry for your loss but i  want you to know he's in a better place  i would never do that just that little  bit of mis dishonesty just that little  bit  of uh  manipulation  and i mean it may not directly bring  money into your church it may not  directly bring money into your political  movement but the fact that you took the  time to sit down and talk to a widow  about the death of her husband  and and tell her what she wanted to hear  about god or jesus or the afterlife or  whatever even communists do this [ __ ]  it's just a different mythology you know  that widow  will now donate money to you  month after month year after year for a  decade like you can you can secure  long-term financial support just by  lying to people just by medical policy  okay it takes a certain kind of  character you know yeah you can talk  about charisma or talk yeah  it takes a certain kind of ethical  commitment  and a certain kind of propensity for  evil a certain kind of pliancy a certain  kind of pliability a willingness to do  things that are really blatantly  dishonest bad evil and wrong  to succeed  in the old political system and in the  new era of social media right it's a  different kind of character it's a  different kind of dishonesty it's a  different kind of evil  but i'm saying you it's the same sort of  thing  i could never lie to my audience i could  never manipulate my audience just as  much as james assby does  right to me that's unacceptable right  and james asked me he's way more honest  than than wayne's young he's way more  honest than roger hallum right and look  at what roger helm does you can you  don't have to go to his youtube channel  you look at my youtube channel look at  my own youtube videos but roger helm the  way he stands in front of an audience of  teenagers  and tells them  millions of people are dying right now  even that's not true even that's a lot  like every single thing he's telling  them from my perspective it's a lie it's  either a lie or a half truth right it's  a lie lie lie lie he's he stands there  and what is he trying to sell them on  he's telling them that the only way to  pursue social and political change is to  put yourself in jail  is to serve a jail sentence and i've  quoted him on this he said the only  place for any christian to be any means  here of a good christian a true  believing christian so the only place  for a christian to be in our society  today in the 21st century is in jail  every good christian should be  putting themselves in in prison  he wants to motivate his teenage  followers to go to jail all right i will  not lie to my audience  even as much as durianrider does i will  not lie to my audience all the diet  gurus i know  fully raw christina whatever i won't lie  about  weight loss i won't lie about exercise  right i'm not willing to tell people  what it is they want to hear  for money  all right and what i'm saying to you is  the ecosystem we have now yes in some  ways similar to but in some ways  different from the ecosystem of  soliciting political donations we had  before right it is actively recruiting  and encouraging and arming and funding a  certain kind of myth a certain kind of  myth maker a certain kind of a lie a  certain kind of liar and it's excluding  other kinds of people  sorry various uh  interesting comments here although i  can't i can't ask them all  so um a good question although it's not  particularly the top of this video uh  someone asked quote did you do est  landmark yourself so this is this  cult-like group whether or not it's  technically a cult  uh and he says quote it reminds me a bit  of eckhart tolle in that it regurgitates  ancient texts his idea and ideas as you  mentioned um so you're correct that it  resembles uh cartola it also  regurgitates ideas from kind of sigmund  freud and pop psychology um you can make  a comparison to scientology also in this  in this respect scientology and  dianetics so the short answer question  no i've never i've never i'm not stupid  enough to do that um  you know  okay  an example like landmark  it's partly relevant to this discussion  and partly irrelevant  it's relevant because they have the same  kind of fundraising point it's it's that  it's a very money motivated organization  it's about pay  sign up now  and then once you've paid you've got to  pay for the advanced course you know  it's kind of  pay more and more  but the difference is  they're only promising to transform you  and your life  right  they're not  promising to transform society as a  whole they're not promising political  goals on a grand scale it's just your  salvation that they're offering so  that's  yeah that that's that's the difference  um  but sure it's relevant to this  discussion partly even if it's only that  fundraising element and the totally  dishonest use  of history  the the you know cherry-picking from  history and misrepresenting and lying  about history to support their own  ideology that's how it came up here what  they say about mahatma gandhi what they  say about the buddha what they say about  okay  so it's it is it is very similar to what  seong has done and then as they say  wayne syong he seems to directly  prefigure he seems to be the template  for roger hallam and extension rebellion  and look my point is not that these are  finite examples all all of these uh  roger hallum and and and winston  they directly follow in the pattern  created by the so-called effective  altruism movement that involves and  includes uh peter singer and again many  many millions of dollars involved there  perhaps more than one billion dollars  huge huge amounts of money so-called  effectiveness effective activism  movement my point is not that these are  unique  stars in the sky  my point is that this is a vast  constellation  and  more and more people  are going to imitate and reproduce these  same strategies  not because it's effective in creating  political change no because it makes  money  because it makes the demagogue it makes  the person on youtube the person on  instagram rich  now  my thesis is that it's a complete  failure in terms of what what you want  is democracy or what you want is uh  political change or social change i  don't think it's effective in that sense  at all the problem is precisely that it  makes you into somebody like eccartolo  you're someone who can live forever on  donations and publishing your next book  and just  you know just sitting around and lazily  giving interviews you know and i think  that's fair to say like  i think it is fair to say roger hallam  is becoming  a new eckhart tolle i think that's a  great comparison  i think wayne xiong  tried to become a new ecuador i mean  briefly he was  you know maybe he'll succeed that way  again he's he's had some problems partly  because of sex scandals and what have  you he hasn't been as successful that  way but i think that is completely fair  to say that that's kind of the next step  of the pattern for those for those  people and you can remain perpetually  on the interview  circuit on the book promotion tour for  the rest of your life that money and  fame can last forever for that  individual you know now again even even  petta the founder of peta people with  the ethical treatment of animals you  know what is in what sense are they  successful they're successful in making  her one woman uh rich and famous you  know that's that's the way in which she  succeeds they're totally unsuccessful in  terms of the pursuit of actual political  outcomes social change uh et cetera  okay a number of a number of uh  a number of questions here uh quote do  you think the decline of america has to  do with constant leftist propaganda so  sorry i'll say that again quote do you  think the decline of america has to do  with constant leftist propaganda close  quote  okay  what decline  i don't regard america as in decline  when was it better the 1980s  the 1960s the 1940s you've got to be  kidding i don't regard americans and  decline so i don't agree with that  that part of the assessment again you  heard me if you were here an hour ago or  something you know do you think from the  perspective of myanmar from the  perspective of south korea  you think america democracy is a joke  it's not  now you know you know again i'd be happy  if switzerland were competing with  america if swiss democracy were really  something we could compare to it as an  option um but we can't you've already  heard what i have to say about that so i  don't actually agree with the assessment  that america is in a period of of  decline and again very simply okay  hollywood hollywood movies do you think  they're in decline do you think the  cultural dominance  worldwide of america's in decline do you  think american culture  has less influence  in china today in africa today in south  america today than it had 50 years ago i  don't even know what 50 years ago 100  years what i'm going to say no america  is more influential it's more powerful  in every way  like militarily  culturally in terms of its system of the  market in terms of everything else so i  mean this is this is the reality now by  contrast how influential is russia  are you kidding me there's no  when was the last time you watched a  russian movie you know like you know  russia they punch above their weight  they're they're you know they're more  influential than  more influential than some other  countries i get it you know if you're  gonna put on a spectrum they're not at a  zero but no the so i don't actually  agree with the the assumption that  america is in decline you know secondly  what is the effect of leftist propaganda  the main effect  of leftist propaganda is passivity  all right it's not revolution it's not  riots it's not militating for social  change  the main effect of leftist propaganda  shall we say the last 30 years  has been to encourage  thoughtless  conformity right so this is my honest  answer to you the the problem with  leftist propaganda  isn't any particular change they did  accomplish it's the changes that that  never were accomplished you know it's  what it's what didn't happen it's what  hasn't happened it's the um  the propensity for the pursuit of change  that that never that never came so you  know i feel for my generation i've lived  in a in an unspeakably  um passive  society  you know  um  i could digress  you know  i mean  the very basic assumption  that if you want change you got to go  and get it if you want a better life if  you want a better society you've got to  make it  you know that's absent from the left  again i don't want to make this into a  lengthy critique of what left-wing  attitudes are or even left-of-center  attitudes are but  you know i'm old enough to remember  bill clinton  you know i do think it's fair to say  that bill bill clinton's wealth and  xiaolong bill clinton's view of the  world you know not a philosophy not an  ideology but a set of assumptions about  what the world is how it works you know  bill clinton's left of center view of  the world it has been dominant and it  continues to be dominant  um  bill clinton went to church do any of  you believe bill clinton was a christian  bill clinton prayed on camera  and laughed and clapped i can't remember  him weeping in church but he sometimes  looked sad and serious in church bill  clinton pretended  to be a christian  you know this is just one example but  it's a tremendous important one how much  progress have we made towards having an  atheist society a truly secular society  an anti-clerical society during the  reign of bill clinton and in the decades  since zero  you know  have you ever heard anyone on the left  attacking bill clinton for being  christian for being pro-church do you  know anyone left who's engaged in an  anti-clerical struggle like sincerely  not on the level of [ __ ]  uh comments on instagram or twitter but  someone who really sees that as part of  the political struggle here now this is  only one example but the unspeakable  passivity of our political culture  it has everything to do with the phony  radicalism  of the left wing  you know now i won't say who this was  but i i'm tempted i heard an anecdote  from a professor  and she is left-wing and her students  are left-wing and she dared to complain  that students were coming to class  wearing pajamas  they weren't really wearing proper  clothes that nobody was making it for  their parents couldn't we have a dress  code couldn't we have some minimum  standards for how well-dressed the  students were and you can imagine all  the left-wing people reviled this  professor and insulted her for not being  left-wing enough now  you know this is this is very telling so  and by the way this she's she's a she's  a communist she's not just  she's not a bernie sanders left-wing  person she's not a joe biden level  person she's an outright communist she's  extreme left-wing but that's still not  left-wing enough now why is that  why is it on a deep level that leftism  represents  lassitude  self-indulgence lack of motivation lack  of self-discipline  and of course smoking marijuana  decriminalizing drugs encouraging a life  of doing nothing but getting high and  playing video games quote unquote doing  your own thing man why is it that the  left is associated with  you know fat acceptance  all these  all these things that fundamentally and  integrally have to do with  self-indulgence  right well that is what the left has  become  and i don't think uh bill clinton  produced this tendency you know i think  he exemplifies the tendency i think he's  a useful focal point in moment history  say look this is the left not just the  far left wing not just the communists  and socialists the mainstream left they  created bill clinton they accepted bill  clinton and they still are  bill clinton the people in political  power today  they're bill clinton's age and maybe 10  years younger  that's the political culture that  created them and that they in part  created and i think bill clinton is  totally  comfortable with  marijuana  decriminalizing drugs sleeping with  prostitutes  fat acceptance maybe that's a stretch i  don't know where he stands with the fat  except you know the the you know bill  clinton's he's not a communist he's not  far left he's he's center left he almost  defines the center of the political  spectrum today  right um  so no  that's what i have to say one i don't  believe america is in decline i don't  believe it has declined  um  and i don't even believe america has hit  its pinnacle yet i don't  if you guys haven't watched my earlier  videos haven't you heard america is now  finally in an alliance with india  against china it's a huge turning point  in the history of the world america  finally ended its alliance with saudi  arabia it's a huge turning point in  history of the world it really matters  um  america's influence in india is now  going to grow  um  again we'll have to see what happens  it's possible joe biden will retire and  everything will fall apart but america  has now gotten on a track that's very  powerful  um in relation to india in relation to  africa in relation to south america um  even though america has spent this  enormous amount of money  uh you know they do have a huge debt  crisis  no i i think on the contrary if you're  looking at the next 20 years who do you  think is going to be more influential in  south america in africa in india in  southeast asia  you think it's russia  again even if it's some country we like  like switzerland you think there's going  to be a wave of swiss influence  uh around the world so no i think  actually we are looking ahead to a  period of much more intense  much more powerful and more muscular  american influence partly because  america's political agenda has  fundamentally become more coherent  um  [Music]  and look you know i i  i'd love it if there were other voices  competing with america this way but  japan isn't going to do it taiwan isn't  going to do it you know like i like i  like taiwan and something like  politically taiwan is also a democracy  they also have healthcare and you know i  mean there were good things about taiwan  but taiwan is totally in this kind of  defensive position of just trying to  follow america's lead and write in  america's coattails and most of the  other voices for democracy what sorry  finally finally angela merkel has  retired  i hate angela merkel okay um  what do you think's happening next for  germany do you think germany is gonna  lead a [ __ ] crusade for democracy in  belarus do you think germany is going to  carry the banner of democracy to myanmar  anywhere any of these examples no what  do you think germany's going to do for  mexico mexico needs help too it's  falling apart you know sorry mexico  germany isn't going to do [ __ ] for  anyone but germany right so  you know yeah sure maybe the world would  be a better place if there were other  powerful pro-democratic voices in the  world um but it's not gonna be brazil  it's not gonna be colombia i remember  now so 20 years ago people used to be  building up to say oh it's brazil's  decade brazil is finally going to become  this major power in the world really  really  [Laughter]  you know i'm sorry i i'm incredibly  pessimistic the next 10 years for brazil  any venezuela  you know what happened so no i mean  looking at the next 10 years um  you know  again i'm not saying this because i hate  australia what the [ __ ] do you think  australia is going to do in the next 10  years you know in australia they're in a  very defensive position in relation to  china and so anyway i i'm going on but  i'm sorry i think given what i said  earlier in this video i think it was  worth really staying on that for a  moment and just taking seriously this  assumption of american decline  and you know  and again now that america is no longer  in a paradoxical  completely self-defeating alliance with  saudi arabia and pakistan  the amount and by the way it looks like  america is going to end its alliance  with turkey that's not 100 clear yet but  it looks like they're also making an  enemy out of turkey  that's 80 20 it's like 80 certain 20  percent uncertain what america's  position is going to be so you think  america's influence in iraq is going to  be more or less i think it's going to be  more or less in  uh in iran and in everything in relation  to israel it's just say we're going to  an era where where america's agenda is  actually more coherent  um and le as i say it's very simply less  less self-defeating  yeah so  sorry some things are going to say very  briefly i have written about and  research the political history of  mongolia someone was interested in what  i said  just just reading your comments guys  questions about uh when the book is  coming out so i'm doing the final edits  on the book now so you know um  uh  and you know i am unhappy  that i'm apparently going to have to  self-publish if you guys check my blog  obviously you can see this through  patreon but i also have a blog that's  free  um you could see my communications with  one publisher but it really would be  better for me if i could publish with  somebody  so part of me wants to get the book out  into the world as soon as possible but  some part of me thinks well maybe i  should  maybe i should try to actually publish  if we're moving permanently to los  angeles  maybe i can get a real publisher to do  it and by the way the book is also being  translated into spanish so if i now  learn spanish as a language that'll be  nice i'll get to improve my spanish  by reading my own work in translation um  but yeah the book is mostly done  and the the revisions are really  clarifying what's there like i'm not  changing it but it is i'm just the  argument it is clearer uh the final text  is clearer than the earlier draft  uh maybe it loses some of its uh wistful  quality and being a little bit too clear  but no i mean if you compare them  it's the c  in every chapter it's the same point  being made but the revisions have made  things clearer extra examples are added  things like that in the process  okay it's a great comment from long time  viewer and supporter of the channel do  you quote do you want to give me lucas  that's the name he uses um he said quote  maybe what influenced the public's  expectations of pr stunts so public  relations stunts of this kind by ngos  and political groups doing fundraising  is greenpeace  raising banners and nuclear power plants  and covering coloring rivers green et  cetera okay so  at the beginning of my channel i talked  about this and i made this same point i  met and spoke to the founder of  greenpeace in toronto and that's not  that surprising because he was hanging  around in toronto if you know who that  guy was with nothing better to do  um he was an idiot  never became vegan  never quit drinking alcohol never quit  smoking cigarettes to my knowledge  if he did it was late in life it's  possible it's possibly quite smoking  cigarettes towards the end i shouldn't  say that but anyway he smoked cigarettes  and drank alcohol most of his life real  no-nothing  [Music]  pathetic excuse for a human being  um  i i would completely agree that  greenpeace  is an important  precedent and they have inspired a  certain kind of activism  both on the right wing and the left wing  so if you look at what the right-wing  anti-immigration activists did  they're straight at a greenpeace's  playbook right  now  however  you know  how relevant is greenpeace to our  discussion today  i i think it's fair to say they're more  irrelevant than relevant all right so  let's say the part that's relevant is  greenpeace  like roger hallam greenpeace like wayne  seong greenpeace like the social media  movements that we have today  it's based on a competition  for newspaper coverage  it's based on a very fundamental  misconception misperception or  intentional lie  that the pursuit of political progress  and the pursuit of self-promotion to the  mainstream media are one and the same  they're not  all right  so greenpeace would do things sometimes  ridiculous over-the-top things um  you know classic examples having their  boat ram into another boat and destroy a  boat climbing on board a boat you know  these kinds of acts of  sabotage i suppose against other other  boats you know actually  colliding with a whaling vessel this  kind of thing you know  um  outrageous  life-risking stunts that would get them  into the newspaper when i met and spoke  to the founder of greenpeace we had a  long time to talk  i was standing at the bottom of the cn  towers you know it's one of the highest  buildings in the world and the stunt  greenpeace were doing was that they  climbed up the tower to hang a big flag  saying their slogan on the tower so life  risking and that that barely got covered  by the press nobody was interested in  that case it's actually a good counter  example you know okay you climbed up a  tower and hung up better okay so that's  what they have in common  uh with with the type of social media  activism we're talking about i think  everything else though is different so  greenpeace's philosophy is not based on  any notion that what they're doing is  proven  um as a scientific truth to work  through social science research uh they  are not claiming that if you read  history that the facts of history that  prior precedents of history prove that  their method is effective there's none  of the verbiage of like neither in  philosophy neither in principle nor in  practice um  [Music]  there's none of the verbiage of the  effective activism movement right so  again the effective activist movement to  my knowledge got rolling in 2006  uh and then it got bigger and bigger  like 2012 was maybe its peak i'd say  it's just from memory something like  that effective activism  they really  proved that it was fundraising dynamite  to say hey  we have scientific facts we have  statistics that show if you donate a  million dollars to us and if you donate  just one thousand dollars to us here are  the outcomes here are the effects you  know  guess what like i can't even say ninety  percent of the time it's a lie i don't  think i've ever seen a single instance  where it wasn't a lie so it's not just  tempting to mislead the people who are  donating to you donating to you but this  is really a pseudo science rather than a  science so that was the big shift the  shift was the effective altruism  movement sorry i've said effective  activism before it's because both terms  are used but anyway the effective  altruism movement the single most famous  proponent of which is peter singer but  there were there were many others he  wasn't the only voice and he wasn't the  first voice peter singer actually jumped  on that bandwagon having already been on  other bandwagons before but he was a  famous prominent figure of that and um  you know so by the way there were no  outcomes  how was i'm sorry i don't want to i have  made other videos critiquing but i mean  the the fact is none of these ideologies  work  you know the protest movements don't  work the pro democracy movements don't  work the arab spring doesn't work they  all end in disaster and failure again  and again and again  what works is just the fundraising  component it's just the promise making  component and that's what everyone's  imitating and reacting to now on the  other hand you could also make the  argument that the the green peace  element pulling a crazy stunt and  getting yourself into the newspapers  that that works and that that brings  about some some fundraising and sure  that's part of what direct action  everywhere does that's part of what uh  roger hallam uh does  sure you know  this is uh this is one factor  but yeah  the issue of the what i'm making what  i'm presenting to you is the central  issue the myth  the myth that we know what's going to  happen next we know the  future because of our analysis of  history the history proves there's only  one way forward and this is it donate  now  right  this is you know in karl popper's terms  historicism it's exactly a repetition of  the the historicism that was criticized  and debunked by karl popper i don't want  to digress into making this a video  about karl popper's philosophy of  falsification and so on but of course  it's not entirely a coincidence  that they reinvented the wheel if the  wheel you're talking about is  the way marxists would selectively  interpret and misrepresent history to  present their own cause as the one and  only path to social progress donate now  and um  to claim that they knew the future that  they had uncovered the pattern of  history or something or the laws of  physics if you like and thus they could  see the trajectory of history they could  see what was what was going to happen  next and they knew the only strategy  that would work  now one of the differences is that  marxism is actually outrageous  and very difficult to believe  the myth they're presenting you with is  it's  obviously incompatible with reality in  so many different ways so again i don't  want to make this into a video that's  about marxism i don't want to make a new  video that's about karl popper and  his philosophy of science and his  critique of marxism be too long a video  but to give a brief example the marxist  claim  with absolutely no sense of humor i  assure you  um  the marxist claim that the poor are  constantly getting poorer  under capitalism in countries like  england america germany that's not true  now it's not true if you're looking at  the period between 1880 and 1930 it's  not true if you're looking at 1930 to  1960 and it's not true if you're looking  at 1960 to 2020.  this is a very simple elemental thing is  that their idea is that with the  progress of capitalism the workers get  paid less and less they get oppressed  more and more and then they have this  privilege that didn't happen at none of  the periods of time like even during  karl marx's life that wasn't what was  happening that didn't happen so  i'm just pointing out  it's marxism is an outrageous set of  predictions of the future it's an  outrageous interpretation of history  what they say about the french  revolution is a lie what they say about  uh the paris commune in 1848 is a lie  what they say about napoleon the third  is a lie like everything they're saying  about his life then of course when you  move forward they lie even more what  they say about lenin and stalin is a lie  and what they say what's done but even  the kind of foundational period it's all  lies about history  okay well  yeah  the new lies the new mythology right at  least right now  it's not so outrageous people  the vast majority of people they don't  see that it's a myth at all they can't  see that they're being lied to or misled  and i've talked to plenty of those  people  face to face people who really believe  these are the facts of history  established by social science research  now again of course  it's passion over reason of course it's  an emotional rather than intellectual  appeal don't you want to be like mahatma  gandhi don't you want to be like martin  luther king jr  don't you want to be on the right side  of history don't let yourself think  about those other possibilities  you know i started this video by saying  boldly where does democracy come from  these people want to believe  that hippies dancing in the streets  naked are where democracy comes from  they want to believe that topless  protesters  for women's rights or transsexual rights  or whatever the the cause of the day is  topless protesters against climate  change topless protesters against fur  that this kind of street activism  you know again proven by this very  selective one-sided reading of history  proven by the kind of pseudo-scientific  quantitative research  pioneered by the effective altruism  movement and i think effectively  harnessed by people like wayne's young  at dxe people like roger hallam they  took that rhetoric and they took even  those arguments and those peer-reviewed  published papers they didn't they took  the actual resources the citations and  the books and so on they presented that  and they said hey  here's the way politics works here's the  way history works in the past and the  present and the future you know uh  donate now it's this very powerful  mythology that's being presented to the  world and yes  fundamentally and integrally it has to  do with the question of where democracy  comes from how democracy works now how  it will work and how it how it should  work in the future  i am going to wrap things up babe if you  want to if you want to jump in  feel free to disagree with me melissa  and i talk for so many hours a day um we  spend a lot of time together but you  know i'll go through the comments that  are here um i'll put a bow on it  but  you know i mean it's funny because  there are some things  that  there's some things i've talked about on  youtube 100 times and it's interesting  every so often i reflect there are  things that i've only ever talked about  with melissa you know  but i mean if anyone in the world  was prepared for this spontaneous and  unexpected  youtube video i mean it's you now  because so so many well melissa's also  read the book already she read the first  draft of the book  she found many typos in it too but i  mean i just say it'd be  if there's no pressure on you but if you  have anything to say certainly nobody's  better prepared nobody could be less  surprised by this live stream than you  are now  so what i was thinking just now is one  of the first  the first video i ever saw on your  channel was about this exact topic about  protests and how protesting won't save  the planet  and that appealed to me at the time  because i had been a vegan for about two  years and uh  i was starting to get more involved in  vegan activism where i was i was  thinking about it i was thinking  if i really want to make a difference in  the world if i want more people to go  vegan you know i've i've tried my best  to reach out to my family and none of  them seem receptive so i need to take  this  publicly i need to do something you know  this was this was my thought process at  the time and then seeing your video  made me rethink things when i was  just like thinking to myself maybe i  shouldn't do protests um maybe maybe i  shouldn't get involved this way  and uh i think what's so attractive  about it is that you don't have to have  any kind of expertise you don't have to  build up political it's a good point  sorry go  you don't have to have the experience  you don't have to have some the  resources that to offer  help to people or talent or intelligence  yeah or a degree as a medical doctor  where you can actually help people yeah  yeah  just standing there  yeah anybody can do it yeah yeah yeah so  that's what's so appealing about it yeah  you're right and you know  also yelling on the street it's  something everybody can do  back and forth that you know just repeat  back what somebody else is saying and  so in this way yeah sorry so i do want  to hear more if you have more to say but  we're just going to jump in with a with  a contrast one of my longtime viewers  you know someone is a big fan of the  channel wrote to me and simple question  but i took it seriously and said look  can you give me an example of someone  who changed the world without any  violence whatsoever  so but  that's not to say i'm someone who's  completely opposed to the use of  violence to change the world all kinds  of conflicts the use of violence is  inevitable but a totally good question  don't believe me and i gave him several  examples but the main one was walt  disney  the founder of the walt disney company  any of these political figures we talked  about in this video none of them have  been as influential as autistic walt  disney changed the world and he still is  like after the grave you know like i  think walt disney has been more  influential than karl marx in the last  100 years walt disney really is one of  the most influential people in the  history of the world  it takes talent it takes hard work like  even just learning to draw as well as  walt disney he personally did do  illustrations and so on he was also  obviously a creative writer and came  with these plots and storylines and i  know it's mostly a butt of jokes but  there was a time when there was a huge  conflict in america because all kinds of  children turned to their father and said  how can you eat deer  how can you kill and eat a deer because  they'd seen bambi it's a long time ago  and we mostly think of this as a joke  it's no joke i mean as bad as walt  disney films may be they raised  fundamental ethical questions for  generation you may not know this but  walt disney was anticlerical he was  anti-christian and anti-religious and  that's why there were no christian  elements in any of the walt disney theme  parks walt disney land walt disney world  etc and actually the morality in the  films made during his lifetime you could  say it's a kind of pagan morality but he  intentionally unconsciously rejected  christian obviously  for me personally i don't really look up  to walt disney okay there's a point  whether you think of a medical doctor  who goes to myanmar and now starts to  become an important influential person  in burmese politics because they're  actually saving people's lives you know  or you think of walt disney who begins  with a blank sheet of paper and a pen  drawing cartoons and then gets into  movies and so on and so forth  there's a lot of hard work a lot of  talent a lot of dedication a lot of  suffering and a lot of potential for  failure there and melissa has raised a  very interesting point which i i don't  think i've ever made in any of my videos  like i didn't make it today  which is one of the things that's so  fundamentally appealing  about the protest centered model and  even this donation seeking model all  these these aspects of the model have  been talking about but the currently  dominant model of of activism is that it  doesn't demand  talent  from anyone  yeah so that's that's that's a good  point babe did you want to go through  that wasn't it  i jumped in just to put a human face on  it there but yeah but how much more  intimidating to say to someone oh yeah  you want to change the world you want to  make a difference go to med school and  become a surgeon do that first then  we'll talk about everything say oh oh  yeah you want to want to become like  walt disney become you know become you  know well that's intimidating you know  yeah right i guess i could just expand  more  like this of activism  even going into a factory farm and  taking one of the injured pigs or  injured chickens  it  not only brings you a sense of  friendship with other people that are  participating in this but you don't have  to have any of the oratory skills that  you would have to build up for this  example that you use at the start of the  video like benjamin franklin uh the the  process of  real political action at least the old  school style of either  presenting information to a large group  or going door-to-door uh actually  knocking on people's doors and handing  out a pamphlet or something like that  yes is  time consuming you don't get kind of you  don't get a lot of attention  you don't uh yeah right  it's it's it's a slow grind  and  that's that's part of  the short term thinking about protests  about getting involved in protests  the idea that just just yelling on the  street um doing this simple thing once  will make  changes that last  for the rest of the world you know the  rest of world history uh this is the  idea with extinction rebellion that's  that's getting  uh  preached by roger howland yeah so um oh  my thanks it was a good uh a good  addition to the discussion the video  that i i didn't uh  i didn't see coming  um  yeah so all of our comments there's a  real emotional appeal to historicism  that carl parker talks about at the end  of his book the poverty of historicism  so i just say  not making this into a video about the  philosophy called popper however  one element of historicism  is the sense of certainty people have in  the future  now it wouldn't be fair to say that  marxists actually think they have like a  magical vision of the future but  marxists and many left-wingers they  believe they know  in broad outline they know what the  future is and they're making progress  toward it and how they know that what it  is they think they know about it now you  know again if you actually talk to  people face to face  what if we just use a culturally  unfamiliar example okay how certain are  you in the future of saudi arabia  is that you know you really think gay  rights is coming for saudi arabia  in terms of my model presented in this  video i can tell you exactly how you'd  get gay rights in saudi arabia if saudi  arabia is conquered by the united states  of america or if it's conquered by  england or a consortium of european  powers if it is conquered the power of  the house of assad is broken you know  it's you know  okay you know like  certain certainly take us a degree of  song flaw to think about how you could  have gay rights in saudi arabia within  the next 20 years or the next 50 years  it would come about through through  force right  and even through colonization you could  say you know that would be how gay  rights be accomplished in saudi arabia  but you know um  you know so  historicism there it's very really there  are two aspects to it one is  one aspect is that you know the meaning  of history right  of course there's all this mythology and  self-discipline now again it's not just  that you know the facts of history  you know the facts that matter you know  what to ignore in history right you know  so again the way left-wing people  remember the year 1848 running this  other stuff you know the way they  remember the french revolution uh french  revolution's plural i guess i should say  you know the way you know they know  not what happened but what matters about  what happened what it really means and  what it really foretells right and then  the other side is the belief that you  that you know the future now  many people of course say that this  creates radicalism because they feel  reassured that they're going to win  i have asserted in this video instead it  creates passivity it creates unspeakable  passivity the belief that progress is  inevitable as opposed to living with the  fear of that look  there's nothing inevitable  about the culture  in texas  becoming more and more like the culture  in downtown new york city  you know the opposite can happen  the so you know conservative christian  culture that we associate with texas  that can be the future of the united  states of america and there's no reason  to assume that saudi arabia is going to  become more and more like america  america can become more and more like  saudi arabia when you really live  the type of uncertainty the type of  doubt i would encourage you to live with  goes far beyond this but living with  doubt and uncertainty even at that level  um that inspires a certain kind of  engagement inquiry open-mindedness and  even political activism very different  from the commitment to to historicism  um so i have a question here that comes  back to the original thesis of the video  and what i proposed in my my six minute  prologue or preview to this live stream  not show right then quote  isil what did you mean by talking about  the mythology created out of our  personal lives and politics being in  parallel  so i said that before the start of this  this live stream and i'm gonna say it  again now i was outlining for you at  length the way in which  one model of fundraising and one model  of political activism  basically favored someone like a  christian preacher and many of the most  successful political leaders they were  christian periods you know now this is  not the only source of uh  i don't know bias that creeps into who  gets to become a successful politician  who was jfk  john kennedy  he was the son of a multi-millionaire  and that's it  he had no other preparation or  qualifications he had no interest in  politics he had no motivations his early  elections he wasn't proposing any goals  there was nothing he wanted to  accomplish he he was simply born  incredibly rich and this put into  politics so you know the the the  christian preacher model is not the only  model that has mattered historically and  still uh  matters now being both a  multi-millionaire and a christian  preacher and i really got advantages you  know we talked about the type of  character the type of manipulation and  the type of dishonesty  uh that really centrally is about  fundraising  you know  fundraising as the engine for  political organization you know it's  what makes everything possible in  politics  sorry i have all kinds of interests i  have all kinds of things i'd like to do  you know  i mentioned recently i would like to  make a documentary film it could also be  a book  talking about why are police in the  united states of america so overweight  and unhealthy now that may sound shallow  but i don't want to make a shallow film  or shallow book i think it'd be really  interesting to move further with a kind  of constructive critique of what's going  on in american policing to look at the  lives that cops actually live i'm not  one of these defund the police people  i'm not and abolish the police people to  look at how miserable it is being a cop  and to eat your lunch  sitting in the front seat of your car  every day and their struggles just to  feed themselves and their struggles to  be healthy and so like what life is like  for police and what the extent to which  there are people who are falling apart  physically and falling apart emotionally  and they feel despised and unappreciated  by the society they're a part of and  another huge issue i've been interested  in there is um police and their  relationship to psychiatry to what  extent are police  people who are relying on  antidepressant drugs you know how they  fit into the science and pseudoscience  of the mind in our times so you know get  into the really it's not a critique of  policing or police officers but a  humanization of police officers that  includes the fact that you know despite  the fact these men they do put their  lives in harm's way  there's a lot of professional pressure  on them and social pressure on them to  be  lean and muscular  and they're not i mean the huge  percentage of them whenever i see the  police on the news the vast majority of  them they're falling apart physically  and i think many of them i don't know  how many i think they're falling apart  emotionally and  to question who the police are  physically  emotionally intellectually what kind  everyone said during 2020 that we should  improve the education of the police well  what education do they have  who are they and how are they educating  the police that exist today to really  inquire and that i would love to do that  as a project again it could be a book it  could be a movie it could be both the  research that goes in the movie you spin  off as a book you know put them on  i'd need money  i need support i need donations from  people like you not a lot  it's not a lot of money  so this ridiculous claim from roger  hallam that he needed uh anyway they got  more than 1 million pounds sterling but  the original target was 850 000 british  pounds so let's call it 1 million  dollars in round numbers and they got  over a million british pounds they  needed this for this one protest  look at the protest where did the money  go what did you what were you did you  have solid gold placards did you get a  you know gold-plated megaphone what did  you do with a million dollars so this  protest you know so you just say to make  that film or to do that research i  wouldn't need a million of anything but  sure you know like your ability to do  fundraising and that is a kind of  political protest that is a kind of pro  sergeant that's a type of really  legitimate democratic political activism  and i can present it both negatively and  positively because i'm partly saying hey  i'm trying to make the lives of police  officers better  but of course it's partly going to be a  critique of what's wrong with the  policing system we have now and by the  way i mean have you ever seen anyone  getting into how much sleep police  officers get how many hours they work i  care about that even for pilots you know  pilots who are expected to sleep on this  terrible schedule well how safe is it to  for them to fly the plane you know  but i mean you know sleep deprivation  for cops and the hours they work and and  all these other elements i think that's  tremendously meaningful my ability to  act on that idea  there's a it completely relies on my  ability to do fundraising right now  by the way contrast me to people who  were successful the guys who made the  film cowspiracy they know so that was i  don't know if you guys know that started  a straight up crowdfunding that was a  straight-up kickstarter you know uh  donation drive so they asked for  donations they say hey we have this idea  for the film and  [Music]  compare uh  compare  you know what the promises they made at  the beginning ward what the final film  was like you know i think that's a kind  of crappy film it was successful i'm  happy for them because they're  successful but it's really kind of a  crappy film  and again i'm not willing to be  dishonest even to the extent to which  the creators of cow spirits are  dishonest neither in the fundraising or  in the filmmaking nor nor anything else  okay so so the question was bringing me  back to something that was in the the  preview or promo video for this  what am i saying about the relationship  between the mythology we make out of our  personal lives and politics being in  parallel okay so there's this young  woman  telling you she's not that young  actually she's a middle-aged woman  um she's telling you  that  she doesn't lie  to her audience she doesn't lie but  uh she only shows you the good parts  as you can see she's emotionally  cracking up she's indicating that she  can't do this anymore can't do it at the  moment she's telling you how terrible  okay you know  it's so  easy  to talk about  learning the lessons of history  but what we have right now is a  political culture  completely based on concealment and  deception  where people like me come on camera and  they talk about history  but they only show you  the good parts they only show you the  facets of the story that support the  propaganda case they're making  sorry this is flagrantly true with  wayne style and roger hallum and their  quote-unquote interpretation of history  their understanding of public protest  their understanding of democracy itself  etc etc you know um  simultaneously they're constructing and  conveying to you  an image of  who they are  now there were many parallels these  people  durianrider boasted about how he went to  jail  wayne siong  boasted about how he went to jail roger  hallum  every lecture  boasting  about how he went to jail why is that  right there were other aspects to these  people's lives right it's not like  that's the only thing you didn't know  you're making a sort of selective  biased reading  of your own  personal history you're doing it all the  time  on social media  right so in parallel we have we have a  generation of people who are growing up  learning to present their political  views  as proven by  the anecdotes of history all right  proven by very careful very prejudicial  selection of anecdotes from history and  even those anecdotes may be built on a  lie maybe built on active  misrepresentations of what really  happened or why it happened oh hey guys  why did the vietnam war end when it  ended oh hey guys how do we abolish  slavery again  so you know an anecdote that's told  about the vietnam war an anecdote that's  told about the evolution of slavery an  anecdote that's told about dr martin  luther king jr it may already be a total  lie and a total misrepresentation but  the careful selection of these anecdotes  and then stringing them together  with the wire to indicate a trajectory  to indicate the inevitable progress of  history at the same time that's what  people are doing in the examination of  their own lives in the exploitation of  their own ongoing  autobiography whether that is to present  themselves as a hero  or as a victim  right  fundamentally in this way  um  fundraising is leading us into  a new and different era in which  politics at every level is dominated  by dishonest  self-promoting  self-centered  fame [ __ ]  and their short-term goals  of becoming rich becoming famous  becoming powerful sex fame money power  respect  there their short-term goals  are presented  as if  they're a necessary stepping stone to  the long-term goals as if they're  prerequisite  for those eventual outcomes  but my claim is  consistently again and again  the long-term outcomes never happen  never materialize they're never even  pursued there's no progress made toward  them  whatsoever i would say this about the  left and the right i think that the only  lasting effect  is the creation of the cult of  personality for the individual  doing the fundraising  how did  jordan peterson  become so rich and so powerful he asked  for donations so he could start his own  university  that's what the donations were for  look it up you can find screenshots it's  unbelievable it's mind-blowing he began  as someone offering a radical critique  of what's wrong with the university  system  there's a lot wrong with the university  system the united states and canada and  that he was going to gather these  donations he poured out his heart it was  kind of chapter one of his famous period  about everything that was wrong about  these universities that he was going to  take your money and create a better and  brighter  university where he would obviously be a  professor and to some extent he would be  the president or what have you  and yet mysteriously  that  never  happened okay  whether it is peta or direct action  everywhere or green peace  none of them ever achieve their goals  none of them even move  a single step closer to their goals and  my claim is extinction rebellion won't  either  what's presented to you as a stepping  stone as a means to them to an end  the fundraising stage  becomes  simply  an end in itself  you're reassured at the beginning that  all this fame whoring all this lying  about the individual and their history  and all this lying about the world's  history the manufacturing and marketing  of this myth  you're reassured that even if you can  see some cracks in the facade even if  you could see something wrong with it  you're reassured that you should set  that aside for the greater good of the  goal you're moving towards but the only  thing that's ever accomplished  is the wealth and fame of the one man or  one woman who stands at the top of the  organization and their wealth and fame  and power will continue  even if the organization itself  withers away and fails once this process  of fundraising  is done